UCI is 1 of 66 universities in the U.S. and Canada elected to membership in the prestigious Association of American Universities.
For the 22nd consecutive year, U.S. News & World Report has recognized UCI Medical Center as one of America’s Best Hospitals.
190+ UCI Health Doctors have been named as "Physicians of Excellence"
Money magazine named UCI the #1 university for beach lovers.
UCI is No. 2 in Sierra magazine’s 2021 ‘Cool Schools’ ranking of sustainability leaders. Campus has been in top 10 for unmatched 12 straight years, with 4 first-place finishes. The magazine is the official publication of the Sierra Club, one of the nation's largest and most influential environmental organizations.
UCI is a 2-time recipient of STARS Platinum rating for its sustainability efforts. It is 1 of 4 universities to receive the rare recognition.
According to 2022 US News & World Report UCI ICS Computer Science graduate program is ranked 14  and Computer Science undergraduate program ranked 12 among public universities. The software Engineering undergraduate program is ranked 7th and the Statistics graduate program is ranked 18th among public universities.
UCI is ranked No. 9 in Money magazine's "Best Colleges" in the U.S. list – making it the highest-rated California university.
UCI is ranked among nation’s top 10 public universities for the eighth year in a row by U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News also puts campus among the Top 10 for social mobility.
UCI is ranked among the top 10 in nation for public universities by Forbes.
UCI is the top choice for first-generation students among all UC campuses for four consecutive years.
Three UCI faculty members, one postdoctoral scholar and one alumnus have received a Nobel Prize. Our Nobel laureates include recipients of the prize in chemistry (David MacMillan Ph.D. ’96, Mario Molina, F. Sherwood Rowland, Irwin A. Rose) and physics (Frederick Reines).
UCI ranks No. 3 for Top Colleges in the West for Diversity by The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education.
UCI is recognized among the 30 Best Colleges for Students with Learning Disabilities. Ranked 4th on the list, the campus provides extensive offerings via the Disability Services Center.
The U.S. Department of Education named UCI a Hispanic-serving institution, meaning that fully one-quarter of undergraduates identify as Latino and that half of all students receive financial aid. UCI is founding member of Hispanic Serving Research Universities alliance, which aims to double Latino doctoral students and increase professoriate by 20 percent.
UCI also is designated as an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution.